Now, there are some things that we can
theoretically do to make this a little bit
better, but they're all kinda nice to
have, this kinda gets to the main point.
But we're gonna do something first,
which is,
did anyone see the bad thing that I did
that I hid in there for you to find?
It's the same bad thing I
keep hiding everywhere.
Hey, let's look at the context.
Yeah, right,
I think maybe I'll stop the editor, right?
No, there it is.
What?
Any.
>> Any, right,
which means this can be any,
which means update.
Who knows the ways this can mess me up?
But this creates a somewhat
interesting problem.
So the way that update works is it takes
an object that has the keys available
in an object, and then it just kinda
replaces the current ones, right?
If I turn this into Item, well,
that's gonna be problematic,
because theoretically,
I also have to change it here.
Yo, I fixed it in my
actual implementation, but
you know why not blowing up?
Cuz they spread.
Look, now is angry at me, one any.
All it takes is one any,
you saw it with my action earlier.
And the way this works is we're
only replacing one property, right?
Over here, we're just replacing the name,
we're just replacing path, right?
And so I want the situation
where any keys you give me
better be on item, but
I don't need all of them, right?
I don't wanna replace the ID of an item,
kind of person would do that.
I just wanna say, optionally, I wanna
be replaced anything on an item, right?
And this is where utility types, which
is just pure TypeScript come in helpful,
but in a very specific React use case.
So what would this look like?
So let's go back into our context.
And you might say that, hey, Steve,
if you had magically derived this, or
if using useDispatch, you wouldn't
have to do this in two places.
Yeah, you're great?
But this is the point we see with use
state and some of the trade offs.
So one of the things I
could do is a Partial.
What partial does,
Partial is a utility method, right?
You can see it by hovering over it, and
if that stresses you out,
that's okay, it stresses me out.
But basically, it takes all the keys in
the object, it makes them all optional.
It's basically taking everything and
dynamically putting a question
mark in front of all of them.
It's built into TypeScript, I don't have
to do anything, I don't have to write it,
it's been there for a while.
Each new version, not each new version,
new versions of TypeScript very
frequently have more and more of these.
There's a one that I really
liked that came out.
It's either coming out in 49,
or came out in 48.
I think it's coming out in 49,
which is awaited.
Which is if you use a weight,
it's like this is either the promise
that we're awaiting or is the value.
And it just does all of that for you.
Cuz previously, I think even when we
did a previous version, of course,
figuring out whether or
not something was a promise,
you had to check for
then method and stuff like that.
It was not easy, and there's been a lot of
abstractions that make that a lot better.
I have a custom one in my
code base that I hate, and
I'm waiting until we upgrade to 49, yeah,
that's what it is, before I can use it.
So this makes them all optional.
But what if you wanted to say,
all of them optional but
I better not see an ID in there, right?
This is where more utility
types come in handy.
So we could say Omit.
And if I just put it around Item,
it would just take it out Item.
But this is omitting the partial one,
right?
So I can say Omit, and I can say id.
And if I grab this real quick,
we can see kind of break it out so
we can just hover over and see.
So we'll say, PartialItem,
We'll just grab that first part.
And it will say type Partial,
Omit.
This is great way, is like not
re-type stuff all over the place,
PartialItem, and then but
don't include the id.
So if you look at PartialItem, these
can all be either a string or undefined
versus the regular item, that was not
the case for, they all had to be there.
And WithoutId, it says,
but not the id, right?
There's a bunch of these.
It is not the best use of our time
in a workshop on how React and
TypeScript play together.
They have it written up, you can go take a
look at it on the documentation I put for
this workshop.
Absolutely, do I remember
all of them all the time?
No, is it important?
Or if you're doing something squarely or
copy base,
it'd be like I should see what the latest
set cuz they do update a lot, right?
There are new ones in many of the point
releases, not just 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, but like
in each new release, some new ones come
out that solve a lot of common problems.
So in a lot of these cases, if you need
to do something special like that,
you can reach for some of these to kind
of create new types on your behalf.
So what I'm gonna say is cool,
any of the properties that
are on an item but not ID,
I should be able to use
this now in both places.
Yep, cuz it's not getting the right thing,
so I just gotta swap it in here.
And my code compiles, and
now it's a lot safer,
I don't have that any
infecting everything.
But I also didn't have to go and
statically make another type again,
cuz you can imagine that's well and good
in a stupid little example app, totally.
All of a sudden, one thing changes, and
you've hard coded all these
different sets of values everywhere.
It's not great, right?
So letting the type system, and
you'll notice that React has
done a bunch of this for us.
It's how props with children works, right?
It was like, cool,
take whatever it had and jam on children.
That is React.ReactNode, right?
We used these already in prior examples,
we just didn't really talk about them,
right?
And having some of those variables
being able to pass in, right,
it's kinda what set state was doing.
It's like, hey, OU state, right?
It tried to derive the value,
if not, we could pass one in.
That's very much what we're
doing with our Partial, right?
We're making a new type based
on some other information.